The cool thing is you don't need to add any new css classes to be able to use transition group,
it works just like transition
so you can use the same css classes your name enter, your name enter active and so on.
The same is true for javascript hooks,
that's exactly the same,
the only difference is the name of the component you are using here but that is only relevant for
vuejs, you use it just like transition, wrapping the code you want to have in your transition group,
by the way that should not include the unordered lists since we don't want to animate that so
let me remove this.
So just like this,
and now this of course is more than one element because list item will be replicated.
So therefore we'll need such a transition group,
and now again usage is the same as for transition
but behind the scenes, it now also works for multiply items.
So here let's say we want to use our slide animation, so name is slide,
we already set up all the class we need here and with that being set up, let's see if it now works out
of the box,
nope the whole list is gone,
what happened here?
It's kind of similar to the problem we had before with transitioning between two elements which used
the same html tag like div here,
we had to key them to let vuejs know which element is which, and for transition group, we always have to
key the elements here
even if they were using a separate tag name. So here we need to add a key because otherwise
vuejs is not able to identify the individual items in the list,
however it needs to be able to identify them because when it animates them,
it also needs to move the existing elements
and for that it needs to be sure that it moves the right element and for that, it needs a key because
it can't identify them
otherwise, each element needs a unique ID.
So you can choose anything which is unique, here
I will bind key with the colon because it's a dynamic binding
I want to set up here to my number because each number is only part of this array once it's a perfectly
valid unique key.
Now with this in place, if we reload this, we see that the list is back and if I add it, we see it now
smoothly animates in, though the one ugly thing is, also the case for removing it that everything jumps,
so it snaps the list together after the element is removed
and if I add one, it instantly jumps down to make room for the new element.
It would be nice if that moving of elements would also be animated so that we really have a smooth animation
going on here in our list,
turns out we can animate it,
that's a big difference between transition group and transition.
Yes we can use it the same way but it also has an extra here,
it gives us access to a new css class.
Besides slide-enter, slide-enter-active and so on because we're using slide animation here, the same would
be true for fade of course if we use that,
besides these classes, we also got slide move and this class is attached to any element which needs to
change its place, for example because a new element was added, another element therefore needs to change
the place because it means move down or when deleting element, it needs to move up
and for this movement process, this slide move class here is attached to allow us to animate this as
well.
How shall we animate this then?
Well we could simply say transition and then transition the change of the transformed property over
one second, transform is this property we use here in the animation for example which vuejs will use behind
the scenes for moving elements,
so this is not related to our keyframes here,
vuejs will always move elements behind the scenes by using transform, translate Y or X, whatever
is appropriate to make them move their position.
Now since vuejs will do that behind the scenes to change the position of an element, we can transition
this property, this transform property to take advantage of this being used by vuejs to animate it.
So what I'm telling css here is whenever the transform property is somehow changed and it is changed
when vuejs uses translateX or translateY, whenever that happens,
animate it over one second
and this is why we will see such animation.
However if I use it like this, what you will notice is that if I reload this and add an item, it moves
down perfectly, looks great, looks exactly how we want it to behave
but if I remove an item, we still have this snapping going on, now why is that,
why is it working for adding items but not for removing items?
The answer is because when we remove an item, the old items which are sitting below the new items still
have their position in the document flow and that position will only change if the old item is removed.
And the fact that we want to animate it doesn't change this because it can't be animated with translateY,
if we would hurt the document flow with that, kind of.
So we have to go to slide-leave-active which is the class attached to the element which is removed during
the removal process
and here we have to switch its position to absolute, this make sure that other elements may move above
this element whilst this element is still being animated. And therefore if I now reload this, we can see
I can add items but if we remove one, this now looks fine and it moves the other items correctly, just
like that.
So this looks much better now with the whole list being animated now.